Object Oriented Notes

1.member variables 
a- Global-    static and non static => premtive and non premitive
   Global- within scope of class outside method
b- Local- within scope of method including "Method input argument"

2.Class methods-
    Static - it can be accessed without creating an object of the class
    non static-
3.Instance of Class-
    instance means creating an object


4.this keyword -
    -referance variable that refers to current obj.
    -used to refer instance variable of current class
    -to initiate current class constructor
    -passed as argument in method/constructor call
    -can be used to return current class instance


5.Access specifier like public or private. by default protected 
    - used to restrict access.

    access modifier                                 public protected  default   private
    a)accessable inside class                       yes     yes          yes     yes
    b)accessable within subclass                    yes     yes          yes     No
    inside the same package.
    c)accessable within sub class
    outside package.                                 yes     yes          No      No
    d)accessable outside package                    yes     No           No      No

6. Constructor-
    constructor of class must have same name as class name
    access modifier can be used to control its access in constructor
    no return value statement in constructor but returns current class
    can write return in constructor
6.default Constructor (no argument constructor)
   - to create an object, call superclass constructor
   - initialize all instance variable of class obj
   int = 0, String = null

7.custom Constructor-
         A constructor that has parameters is known as custom constructor. If we want to initialize fields
          of the class with  own values, then use a custom constructor.
        data member of class is declared
        they are initialized by constructor with values passed as argument while obj is created
        this keyword is used


8.default Constructor gets bypass by custom Constructor so we have to write new Constructor like default constructor like empty.


9*.Constructor overloading =

    Compiler differentiates constructors on the basis of numbers of parameters, 
    types of the parameters and order of the parameters.

    Constructor calling must be the first statement of constructor in Java.

If we have defined any parameterized constructor, then compiler will not create default constructor. 
and vice versa if we don’t define any constructor, the compiler creates the default constructor by default during compilation

10.Static keyword-
    non access modifier in Java applicable to variables, methods, blocks and nested class
    When a member is declared static, it can be accessed before any objects of its class are created, 
    and without reference to any object
     keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or
    a method that is same for every instance of a class
    


11.Static method-
    it belongs to class and not to obj.
     can be accessed directly by the class name and doesn’t need any object.
    Only static variables can be used, member variables are not allowed.
12.Static variables-
    variable belongs to class(not to instance of obj) and initialized only once at start of execution.
    
13.Accessing variable inside Static method.
    We cannot directly access the instance variables within a static method because a static method can only access static variables or static methods.

An instance variable, is tied to an instance of a class
 to access an instance variable, we must have an instance of the class from which we access the instance variable.


14. Final keyword- value can't be modified in future (constant).    used In class/method/variable/parameter
    - stops method overriding/inheritance/Value change